readme.md, before:

# mod2sqlite
Extracts information from a [Neverwinter Nights](https://www.beamdog.com/games/neverwinter-nights-enhanced/) module and saves it to a [sqlite3](https://www.sqlite.org/index.html) file. sqlite databases can be read and queried via nwscript beginning with version 8193.14.

This program is written in [Nim](https://nim-lang.org/) and uses the excellent [neverwinter.nim](https://github.com/niv/neverwinter.nim) library to do all the work.

![creaturepalcus.sqlite3 database view in gui](screenshots/creaturepalcus.png)

For [table schemas see below](#table-schemas).

## Download binaries
Binaries are available for download on the [releases](https://github.com/hendrikgit/mod2sqlite/releases/latest) page.

## What exactly does it do?
It reads the information from a Neverwinter module file contained in `module.ifo`, `*palcus.itp` and various GFF files like `.utc`, `.utp` and so on. Names are looked up by reading the relevant `.2da` files and looking up strrefs in `dialog.tlk` or a possible custom tlk. The paths to these additional resources have to be provided as command line arguments.

That data is then written to a sqlite3 database file named as the module file but with the extension of .sqlite3.

## Usage
mod2sqlite expects at least 2 command line arguments. The first one always has to be a module `.mod` file.  
All the other arguments will be treated as directory paths where mod2sqlite looks for `.key` (and `.bif` referenced in that key), `.tlk` and `.hak` files.

At minimum a path to `dialog.tlk` and `classes.2da`, `racialtypes.2da` is needed (in additon to the module, as first argument). The .2da files can be in a hak or in a .bif referenced by a .key. They could also just be in a folder directly.

A good start can be to run the program and keep adding directories, there should be (hopefully) helpful error messages.

A database file with the *name of the module file and the extension `.sqlite3`* will be written.  
**Warning: If that file already exists and is a sqlite database the existing tables in it will be dropped (and recreated and filled with new data).**

Example program call on Linux:
```
./mod2sqlite ~/sfee/server/modules/SoulForge.mod ~/Beamdog\ Library/00785/lang/en/data/ ~/Beamdog\ Library/00785/data/ ~/sfee/server/tlk/ ~/sfee/server/hak
```

## Language
A dialog.tlk file of any language should work. The language of the provided dialog.tlk will also be used when looking up localized strings. If a localized string has no entry for the language the dialog.tlk is in, then next english will be tried and lastly the first language with a value

Table column names will not change.

## Why do I need this?
Having this sqlite table will allow you to query information comfortably and quickly via nwscript. Perhaps to select the most fitting creatures to spawn for an encounter. The sqlite database can be used by many other tools, too, like the graphical database tool seen in the screenshot above for a great overview.  

## Speed
On my computer with my module file it takes less than a second to create the sqlite3 file. This tool could possibly be run at each nwserver start to always have up to date information for the running module.

## Build
* Install [Nim](https://nim-lang.org/)
* Clone this repo
* A sqlite3 library (like libsqlite3 on Debian) needs to be installed on your system (or see the last point)
* Run `nimble build -d:release`
* For creating a static binary use the nimble tasks defined in [mod2sqlite.nimble](mod2sqlite.nimble). Run `nimble musl`. This assumes you are on Linux.

## Table schemas
Schemas for the tables in the sqlite3 database file that will be written.

### creatures
```
cid         name           type
----------  -------------  ----------
0           id             integer     (primary key)
1           name           text
2           resref         text
3           tag            text
4           cr             integer
5           hp             integer
6           level          integer
7           class1         text
8           class1Level    integer
9           class2         text
10          class2Level    integer
11          class3         text
12          class3Level    integer
13          faction        text
14          parentFaction  text
15          race           text
```

Commit message:

added gender column to creatures table

readme.md, after:

# mod2sqlite
Extracts information from a [Neverwinter Nights](https://www.beamdog.com/games/neverwinter-nights-enhanced/) module and saves it to a [sqlite3](https://www.sqlite.org/index.html) file. sqlite databases can be read and queried via nwscript beginning with version 8193.14.

This program is written in [Nim](https://nim-lang.org/) and uses the excellent [neverwinter.nim](https://github.com/niv/neverwinter.nim) library to do all the work.

![creaturepalcus.sqlite3 database view in gui](screenshots/creaturepalcus.png)

For [table schemas see below](#table-schemas).

## Download binaries
Binaries are available for download on the [releases](https://github.com/hendrikgit/mod2sqlite/releases/latest) page.

## What exactly does it do?
It reads the information from a Neverwinter module file contained in `module.ifo`, `*palcus.itp` and various GFF files like `.utc`, `.utp` and so on. Names are looked up by reading the relevant `.2da` files and looking up strrefs in `dialog.tlk` or a possible custom tlk. The paths to these additional resources have to be provided as command line arguments.

That data is then written to a sqlite3 database file named as the module file but with the extension of .sqlite3.

## Usage
mod2sqlite expects at least 2 command line arguments. The first one always has to be a module `.mod` file.  
All the other arguments will be treated as directory paths where mod2sqlite looks for `.key` (and `.bif` referenced in that key), `.tlk` and `.hak` files.

At minimum paths to `dialog.tlk` and various .2da files are needed (in additon to the module, as first argument). The .2da files can be in a hak or in a .bif referenced by a .key. They could also just be in a folder directly.

A good start can be to run the program and keep adding directories, there should be (hopefully) helpful error messages.

A database file with the *name of the module file and the extension `.sqlite3`* will be written.  
**Warning: If that file already exists and is a sqlite database the existing tables in it will be dropped (and recreated and filled with new data).**

Example program call on Linux:
```
./mod2sqlite ~/sfee/server/modules/SoulForge.mod ~/Beamdog\ Library/00785/lang/en/data/ ~/Beamdog\ Library/00785/data/ ~/sfee/server/tlk/ ~/sfee/server/hak
```

## Language
A dialog.tlk file of any language should work. The language of the provided dialog.tlk will also be used when looking up localized strings. If a localized string has no entry for the language the dialog.tlk is in, then next english will be tried and lastly the first language with a value

Table column names will not change.

## Why do I need this?
Having this sqlite table will allow you to query information comfortably and quickly via nwscript. Perhaps to select the most fitting creatures to spawn for an encounter. The sqlite database can be used by many other tools, too, like the graphical database tool seen in the screenshot above for a great overview.  

## Speed
On my computer with my module file it takes less than a second to create the sqlite3 file. This tool could possibly be run at each nwserver start to always have up to date information for the running module.

## Build
* Install [Nim](https://nim-lang.org/)
* Clone this repo
* A sqlite3 library (like libsqlite3 on Debian) needs to be installed on your system (or see the last point)
* Run `nimble build -d:release`
* For creating a static binary use the nimble tasks defined in [mod2sqlite.nimble](mod2sqlite.nimble). Run `nimble musl`. This assumes you are on Linux.

## Table schemas
Schemas for the tables in the sqlite3 database file that will be written.

### creatures
```
cid         name           type
----------  -------------  ----------
0           id             integer     (primary key)
1           name           text
2           resref         text
3           tag            text
4           cr             integer
5           hp             integer
6           level          integer
7           class1         text
8           class1Level    integer
9           class2         text
10          class2Level    integer
11          class3         text
12          class3Level    integer
13          faction        text
14          parentFaction  text
15          race           text
16          gender         text
```
